# football-betting

Over the course of the past decade, the data revolution and machine learning practices have made their way into the world of sports. Considering these technologies, there is a divide between their users and use cases within this subsector of sports. For this problem, we will be trying to understand the data in the context that a sportsbook would when setting lines for a match, which is largely done by machine learning in the real world. Actually, the dataset includes the sportsbook's odds converted into probabilities as a benchmark for our model's performance. 

When considering soccer matches, as is our data, the optimal solution & our target is predicting the number of goals each team would score in any given game and this would then yield the match result. For example, if Team A is predicted to score 3 goals and Team B is predicted to score 1 goal, then obviously Team A is the winner. In a machine learning context, this essentially means that we are dealing with a highly multivariate and multioutput regression problem. While it is possible to say this problem could be solved through classification, using regression achieves the same result & actually yields more notable information (ie. the goals scored) than a binary output. Having this extra information would allow us to take bets that are advantageous to us on a risk-adjusted basis. For example, should we expect Team A to score 3 goals & Team B to score 2 goals as mentioned earlier, we likely would not want to be on the outcome of the winner for this game due to the tight spread. Instead, accounting for risk which is another machine learning problem within itself, we would opt for possibly placing a bet on total goals scored in the game since it is expected to be high scoring.

Within our dataset, we are dealing with over 150,000 instances of match outcomes, with each team's last ten matches being represented within the data. Only accounting for the most recent matches is important because momentum plays a large role in performance in sports, not to mention injuries and other short-term related mishaps would impact results should you be predicting on a larger set of instances. Additionally, it is important to consider that predictions should be made on factors outside of specific team performance, as the same prediction logic must be generalized to all instances within the dataset. Looking further into our data, the role of the calender and the dates on which games were played is extremely important due to the momentum factor involved in sports as mentioned previously. Due to this, we will have to explore new methods of dealing with time series/sequential data, which could also be applied to other similar problems such as the markets.

Looking a bit ahead, there are likely going to be some issues with missing data in the dataset due to cancelled games, human error, and so on - Handling this cannot be simply done with imputation along columns, rather the results of specific teams must be taken into consideration when imputing or dropping instances. Additonally, the a possible solution to this problem lies within a subset of Neural Networks called Sequential Learning (Links to an external site.), which we have not looked at during class. So for most of this project, we will likely be working within TensorFlow as opposed to the Scikit-Learn library. Overall, we expect our combined knowledge we have of soccer to help us develop key insights in the data to find a solid solution to this problem.
